# Generated by the SAP Cloud Platform SDK for iOS Assistant

## This App Project
This project can be used as-is. The source code is not protected by any license and can freely be used without restrictions, just like sample source code on our help pages.
More information about the structure of the generated application can be found on [help.sap.com](https://help.sap.com/viewer/fc1a59c210d848babfb3f758a6f55cb1/3.1/en-US/c14683672e9d4df383e8fced4ea9a019.html).

## Tutorials
Check out these tutorials and courses for deep-dives into various areas
* [Mobile Interactive Tutorials](https://www.sap.com/developer/tutorial-navigator/mobile-interactive-tutorials.html)
* [Community Tutorials](https://www.sap.com/developer/topics/cloud-platform-sdk-for-ios.html)
* [openSAP course](https://open.sap.com/courses/ios2)

## TechEd
Watch SAP TechEd sessions on mobility online at [SAP Teched Online](http://www.sapteched.com/online).

----

#  Supporting multiple users in an app

## Overview

### What is multi-user scenario
We talk about multi-user scenario when an application has multiple persisted user data at the same time and so anyone can be restored to be used in the app. However only one of them can be active or opened.  When an application is used more people but the application gets reset before the next user onboards then it is a single user scenario - the default how applications are generated. 

### Quick overview
To support multi-user scenarios you should  replace the default `SingleUserOnboardingIDManager` to your custom implementation in the `OnboardingController`. This class must implement the OnboardingIDManaging protocol and is responsible to store the `onboardingIDs` as well to decide to create a new onboarding session or restore an existing one using the `onboardingID`. It is up to your application design how you support these options.
In this sample a view controller will be presented to the users where the user can select one from the existing sessions or create a new one.

## Prerequisits
1. existing SAP  account to access `Cloud Platform mobile services`  
1. The latest version of the `SAP Cloud Platform SDK for iOS Assistant` application

### Initial setup
1. The `Cloud Platform mobile services` configuration for this application must be created on the server. Create one or import the [com.sap.multiuser.sample_1.0.zip](com.sap.multiuser.sample_1.0.zip) at the `Mobile Services Cockpit` under the `Mobile Applications` / `Native/Hybrid`. This is a simple configuration which points to the publicly available read/write OData service at https://services.odata.org 
1. After downloading this iOS application the server parameters must be updated as well so it will connect to your server. To copy the proper URL go to the `Cloud Platform mobile services` cockpit, select the `Multi User Sample` under the `Mobile Applications` / `Native/Hybrid`. Go to the `APIs` tab. Under the `APIs` section there is a `Server` item with a URL. This is your applications base server URL. Open the `ConfigurationProvider.plist` in the `Onboarding` folder. Update the value of the `host` key to the host part of the `Server` URL (something like https://hcpms-xyztrial.hanatrial.ondemand.com) without the `https://` prefix and without the '/' suffix.

## Steps required to support multiple users

### Create a new onboardingID manager

Create a new Swift class named `MultiUserOnboardingIDManager` and implement the `OnboardingIDManaging` protocol with a simple implementation first: stores the id, returns with `.onboard` when it is asked in `flowToStart`... To make it more realistic we introduce a `User` type which contains a `name` and the `onboardingID`. This will be managed by the `MultiUserOnboardingIDManager`. It worth to create some private helper methods to store, retrieve the `Users`. This way the users can see user names instead of `onboardingIDs` and the type can be exteneded later on demand.

### Create the UI to interact with the user

#### Create a `UITableViewController`

Create a new `UITableViewController` descendant Swift class and name it `SelectUserViewController`. This will present the list of existing onboarding sessions.

1. Create a small new class for the presented UITableViewCells used by SelectUserViewController. Name it `UserTableViewCell`.
1. The cell should have a UILabel as an IBOutlet.
1. create a const cellID: will be used to get the cell, must be set in the storyboard as well
```
static let cellID = "UserSelectorCell"
```
1. Declare two properties:
1. flowSelectionCompletion: the completion handler to call when the user selected the action
1. users: array of `User`s; set by the `MultiUserOnboardingIDManager` with the available users and used by the tableview to present the items
1. Create new IBAction for the add user option: addUser
1. Remove the `numberOfSections` method as we only have one section
1. In the `tableView(_ tableView: UITableView, numberOfRowsInSection section: Int)` just return with the users.count
1. uncomment the `cellForRowAt: indexPath` method and dequeue the cell with the id. Fill the cell with the user name blonging to that line/indexPath
```
cell.userName.text = "\(users[indexPath.row].name)"
```
1. implement the `didSelectRowAt indexPath` method to handle the user selection of items. Just call back on the flowCompletionHandler with the username and onboardingID  
1. remove any other unnecessary commented code snippet from the file

#### Create the UI in storyboard for the SelectUserViewController
Open the Main.storyboard
1. Drop in a new UITablewViewController scene
1. Set the class of the view controller to `SelectUserViewController`
1. Set the `Storyboard ID` to 'SelectUserViewController'
1. Select the prototype cell and set its class to `UserTableViewCell`
1. Add a UILabel to the cell and bind it to the userName outlet. Don't forget to set up the autolayout constraints properly
1. Set the `identifier` of the prototype cell to 'UserSelectorCell'
1. drop a `NavigationItem` to the view controller
1. drop a `UIBarButtonItem` to the right-top, set its `System Item` to `Add` in the 'Attributes Inspector'
1. Bind the action of this button to the `addUser` IBAction

### Bind together the pieces to make it work

Finalize `MultiUserOnboardingIDManager`. When `flowToStart` called we present the UI where the user can select to start a new onboarding session or restore and existing one. So in `flowToStart`

1. get a reference to the main storyboard and load the `SelectUserViewController` from it
1. set the `flowSelectionCompletion`; in the closure save the selected user name and dismiss the view controller, then call the `completionHandler` of the `flowToSelect`.
1. Create a new property where we can save the user name. When onboarding finished and the onboardingID mus tbe persisted we can attach the name to the ID creating a `User` and save it to the UseDefaults
```swift
var selectedUserName: String?
```
When the other delegate methods are called make sure to nil out the property!
1. set the available users on `SelectUserViewController`
```
selectUserViewController.users = self.allUsers()
```
1. present the view controller in a NavigationController to be able to present the buttons in the Navigation Bar. Make sure you call it on the main queue
```
DispatchQueue.main.async {
topViewController.present(navCtrl, animated: true)
}
```
1. Bind the `OnboardingController` to the `MultiUserOnboardingIDManager`. By default the `OnboardingController` is created inside a convenience init of `OnboardingSessionManager` so we will modify that call
In your `AppDelegate` find the `initializeOnboarding` method  (it is implemented as an extension on AppDelegate) and modify the line initialization of `OnboardingSessionManager` by adding the parameter to the initializer (after the `flowProvider` parameter) `, onboardingIDManager: MultiUserOnboardingIDManager()`

Before:
```swift
self.sessionManager = OnboardingSessionManager(presentationDelegate: presentationDelegate, flowProvider: self.flowProvider, delegate: self.onboardingErrorHandler)
```
After:
```swift
self.sessionManager = OnboardingSessionManager(presentationDelegate: presentationDelegate, flowProvider: self.flowProvider, onboardingIDManager: MultiUserOnboardingIDManager(), delegate: self.onboardingErrorHandler)
```

Try out what we have! When the app starts instead of starting with the standard 'Welcome screen' it presents an empty list - this will contain the onboarding sessions. Press the '+' button on the top left corner to initiate a new onboard.
